Impromptu Google Meet Meeting - May 27
VIEW RECORDING - 8 mins (No highlights): https://fathom.video/share/yc-d_fM96ArijUrYCzz9PNfiwJJjb9Qv

---

0:00 - Filip Cedermark
  Hello, Kousalya. Hi.

0:03 - Kousalya (nanduri1120@gmail.com)
  How's your day going?

0:06 - Filip Cedermark
  Good so far.

0:08 - Kousalya (nanduri1120@gmail.com)
  Not yourself? Yeah, it's going good.

1:07 - Neha Doda
  Hello, Neha. Yeah, hi, Kousalya. Hi, Filip. Hi, Neha. How are you doing? Good, good.

1:17 - Filip Cedermark
  How about you? I'm also good. How about you, Kousalya?

1:22 - Neha Doda
  Yeah, I'm good. Thank you, Kaya.

1:24 - Kousalya (nanduri1120@gmail.com)
  I'm good. How are you?

1:27 - Neha Doda
  Yeah, it's going great.

1:46 - Kousalya (nanduri1120@gmail.com)
  So how's your internship work going? It's going good.

1:56 - Filip Cedermark
  Same here, moving along. Yeah.

2:00 - Neha Doda
  For me, I'm learning a lot of new things. Yesterday, I tried with GitHub because I never did it.

3:13 - Kousalya (nanduri1120@gmail.com)
  I don't think anyone might be joining also because I think he has declined the invitation. So if you do want to discuss or if you have any questions you can ask because in the transcript Sanjeev also can read.

3:42 - Filip Cedermark
  I don't think I have much to share. I'm still working on my own things and it's moving along. I don't really have much to much to list right now.

3:56 - Neha Doda
  Yeah, I also don't have anything. I just wanted to ask you. Filip, like, because I have never worked on GitHub.  So I just wanted to ensure that whatever I did yesterday is correct. So like, because I think we are not collaborators on GitHub.  So we have to create a fork and then pull request. Is that the correct way to do it?

4:20 - Filip Cedermark
  I don't, because I'm not the best at using GitHub either. I have used it a bit, but not too much.  I think what you have done is correct. You either create the fork or you can clone the entire repo onto your local machine.  And from there, you can like add your stuff and then do a pull request.

4:43 - Neha Doda
  Yeah, I actually cloned the whole like repository and then I created this fork and the pull request because I don't know, I just took the help of AI and followed the steps that was told to me.  And I think I cannot see it yet. Because it needs like an approval from Sanjeev, maybe, because I wanted to add my PPT inside my folder, so I did that.

5:10 - Filip Cedermark
  Let me see if I can, yeah, exactly. I can see like, because you can go into the GitHub and you can see requests made by other people.  And I can see that your request is up. Where can we see this?

5:24 - Neha Doda
  Can you just help me, like where can we see this? Yeah, sure.

5:27 - Filip Cedermark
  I can share my screen really quick. Entire screen. There we go. You should be able to see now. Yeah, yeah, I can see the screen.  Yes. So this is like the main page of the repo. And if you go here, you have the code, you have issues.  And then here you have a time for requests. Okay, pull requests.

5:51 - Neha Doda
  Okay. And you can see like Nicholas did one a few days ago.

5:56 - Filip Cedermark
  And here you can see yours. Okay, yeah. And like you He it has to be approved by Sanjay before it's merged into the main Git, but it is there, and as soon as he approves it, then it should be up.

6:10 - Neha Doda
  Okay, okay, yeah. I think that means it is correct. Yes.

6:16 - Filip Cedermark
  And have you started with your project?

6:18 - Neha Doda
  Like, what are your plans with your project?

6:22 - Filip Cedermark
  I am going to start scaling up a bit. Most of my time so far has been, like, kind of refreshing some of the stuff, and I've been learning how to work with dbt and such.  And I've been using the notebook that I wrote a while ago to kind of generate some sample data, but in order to get bigger, like, more used to, like, large amounts of data, and, like, when you need to start, like, doing some proper, like, modeling and stuff.  So I'm trying to look around and find some, like, larger sample data sets. Maybe. that I can try to pull the API requests and stuff like that.  So I can get a more like whole picture. Okay.

7:10 - Neha Doda
  So you're looking for big data. Yes.

7:14 - Filip Cedermark
  Yeah.

7:15 - Neha Doda
  Yeah. Okay. That's good. Yeah. Then you will have more exposure to large dataset transformations. exactly. And that's what I think I need.

7:25 - Filip Cedermark
  And I think both Sanju and Raj as well kind of hinted at that as well, like try to start working with bigger amounts because working with larger data is different.  Okay.

7:38 - Neha Doda
  That's good. Yeah. That's all from my side, Kousalya, think.

7:48 - Filip Cedermark
  Then we can leave. Yeah. Seems like it if no one else is joining, which it doesn't seem like it's almost 10 past and no one else is joining.

7:57 - Kousalya (nanduri1120@gmail.com)
  Yeah. Yeah. I think, yeah, I'm going in. Soon do I know, so yeah. Yeah.

8:03 - Filip Cedermark
  Alright.

8:06 - Neha Doda
  Alright then. See you on Saturday.

8:08 - Kousalya (nanduri1120@gmail.com)
  Yeah, see you on Saturday, bye.

8:11 - Filip Cedermark
  Have a nice day.

8:12 - Neha Doda
  Have a nice day.