Internship Data Engineering Program
Sat, Mar 28, 2026

5:02 - Suhash
Good morning, everyone. Good morning.

5:05 - Suhash
Good morning.

5:07 - sanjeev kumar
Good morning, everyone. How was your work week?

5:30 - Filip Cedermark
It was good.

5:34 - Filip Cedermark
Went to the Snowflake event yesterday. Saj was there as well.

5:40 - sanjeev kumar
Nice. What was this event about?

5:43 - Filip Cedermark
Mostly AI, a bit of like agentic stuff, but also some like customer cases and data platform stuff.

5:54 - sanjeev kumar
OK, nice. Which event can you tell me?

5:59 - Filip Cedermark
what was it called like snowflake it was snowflake at least so do you guys also attend other platform events like AWS, Databricks, Microsoft this was the first time for me I only really went because Raj messaged me last second on Thursday, like, hey, we're going to this event. Do you want to go as well? And I was like, yeah, sure. And then I had to register. And then I got placed on a wait list. And then I couldn't get in. But then he had booked an extra spot. And that's the only reason I could get in. So.

6:47 - sanjeev kumar
OK. Nice. And I think you guys should go to such events. First of all, you make connections. You get to see what exactly. Exactly people are working in the industry on, right? All the use cases, what are the problems they are solving? And I would also say go to, at least in the beginning of your career, right? Go to as many platform meetups as possible. Diversify yourself, right? Not only Snowflake, go to Databricks, go to AWS, Microsoft and whatnot, events that will be. And there are a lot of user groups. There are small meetups. It's not like you have to go to big events, right? Big events might be paid. You might have to pay for the entry, but they do have these smaller meetups and working groups. So just look them up in maybe meetup.com, and then try to go there. OK, then I think let's kick this off. OK, I am seeing that we have the meeting notes on, right, Kousalya? Yes, yes, I think we do. Make sure that it doesn't cut off. So last time when DEEPIKA was recording, it seemed like it just recorded faster. OK, so let me share my screen. OK, so last time was the first week. So we had some discussion. So I have created this format. You remember I was discussing with you like AI-based approach, like how do I work? Is how I have set it up I am creating all so the raw folder is something where I'll keep all our meeting transcriptions like for example whatever internship program which was provided by Raj then DS DE DevOps specific whatever rough document that we have anybody creates anything right we'll go into these raw raw directory so this will be my raw data which I'll enter interact with my AI, right? Then live directories where this will be a live document throughout our session, right, internship program, where every session that we do, we will note down what was the agenda. So please don't mind, this is not full list because the AI could not capture everything. I will fix this part. But what was the agenda that was covered? And notes from the meeting. Similarly, for every session, I'll create this in advance and also share it with you. So I'm just trying to figure out how do I share this whole repo with you so that you can also come in and take a look at it. And then there will be these action directory where you need to populate this. So whenever, for example, whatever we discuss, whatever tasks we do, the week there will be use cases to solve and you have some artifacts to share that you have produced that will go into these action points right so so this is the structure that I have set up and And I do all of this using, yeah. So you see, I have set it everything. And I keep on asking questions and keep on working on it, right? So this is the way of work that I have set up. Yeah.

10:06 - Suhash
Could you please maximize your windows for the click?

10:09 - sanjeev kumar
Oh, yes. It's a bit of a blur. Yeah, yeah. Yes. Thank you.

10:13 - sanjeev kumar
Yeah, so I hope it is fine. Otherwise, let me also zoom in a little bit. Now it should be better. OK, then let's get on to session two. OK, so this week's agenda would be, so this will be the format. We will do week check-in, right? Here, it will be nice if we can spend some time, if you have worked on something interesting and especially if you have something to share, then we will have a quick check-in from everyone. Maybe not everyone will get a chance, but please raise your hand if you have something to share, right? And whatever you share, definitely others will have something to learn from So don't feel like you are junior, you don't have experience, so you don't have to share that, right? Please do that, even if it's a small work that you have done. Then we will talk about the platform, like which platforms to start working on, how to use them, and how do you register for them, right? Because whatever use case we do, we need to choose a platform and start working on them. Then we have also defined some use cases, right? And this is my way of thinking, but yeah, I also had like MentorSync, and we thought like, okay, let's give everyone a use case to work with because not everyone is at the same level, right? If you start with us, if you're scaling up in some particular part, like data engineering part or DevOps part, you pick up the smaller one, spend a month on that and ask us questions, right? Because all these, when you progress through all these steps, stages of use cases, you will get questions, right? And then we can come and discuss. Similarly, and if you are like you already experienced, go and feel free to complete the whole use case in a month, right? Then we will go into advanced cases. And then in the end, we will also pick up topics that we think like you should know, right? So for example, to start with, today we are going to cover Where is that? OK. I added it here. The numbering should be changed. But yeah. For example, let's start with data lifecycle. We will start with basic. Like I mentioned, probably a couple of initial sessions will be on common knowledge that everyone should have. So for some of you, it might be repetitive. But it's OK. But I think this is very important because not everyone is from similar background right so we will discuss concepts right like for example today I would like to discuss pick at least one or two of these topics right like for example what is data life cycle let's go and talk about what are distributed systems distributed engines that we work with what are file formats right these are specific to data engineering at the moment but I think this is very generic knowledge that everyone should have right okay so This is the agenda for today. Any questions before we jump into the point one? Any suggestions? OK. Then let's get into one. So I hope you guys got to, did you guys get a chance to check in midweek?

13:46 - Suhash
among yourself yeah and what you guys could discuss or could work this week sorry past week like we just checked in and like we are seeing like what everyone is doing like we thought like they shared like they are working on a skill and like what are the tools they are using then we we thought of going with the presentation slides.

14:18 - sanjeev kumar
Okay, so you guys went through the presentation slides, okay. Okay, any other thing that you guys worked on? Anybody on technical challenges, problems?

14:30 - Filip Cedermark
I don't think like, it's nothing, it's not much like, It's not like I've started a project or anything, but one of the things they suggested on the syllabus, I guess you could call it, or the monthly layouts that they sent out a bit before was just kind of freshening up on SQL. So that's what I've been doing. They recommended a website called HackerRank, which has a bunch of predefined questions or cases where you have to write to write a query to get a defined result. So I've been kind of freshening up on some more basic things and a bit more advanced stuff as well that I haven't used as much.

15:20 - sanjeev kumar
OK, great. Anybody else?

15:30 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
Hi, Sanju. Apologies for joining late. I had a conflict with laundry. It's been a long time I worked on SQL, it was the time when I joined Accenture, I got into the basics, but over the period of time, I didn't have a chance to work on SQL. So this week I tried to recap the basics of SQL and try to work on small queries and understand the basic queries.

15:53 - DEEPIKA ELANGOVAN
Great, great.

15:59 - Asindu Gayangana
Hi Sanjay. Hi Sanjay. Learning past week, mostly in SQL and Wyspa. Both languages. Because I don't have enough knowledge in Wyspa, but I do have experience in SQL. Meanwhile, I focus on window function. And also. Bit complex joins not joining parts bit complex window functioning kind of continuous. So when we are using a stick kind of thing, it means I just wanted to explain that. So using a window function for the count speak, speak means if the day starts from, so, I'm but I'm quite. It's hard to explain actually, so.

17:32 - sanjeev kumar
It's OK, not a problem, so it's great that you're working on PySpark part. I really get excited when somebody talks about PySpark because that's that's the language that I really love.

17:41 - Asindu Gayangana
Yeah, yeah.

17:41 - Asindu Gayangana
I guess. I use query in a Spark Playground and I get the subscription for this month.

18:02 - sanjeev kumar
OK, OK, that's a good thing. So I actually second point is about that. We will talk on this part in detail today because this is important because we need to kick start the use cases now, right? Nikolaos. It's OK if you don't have it's completely fine, just say like, okay, I did not.

18:24 - Nikolaos Biniaris
Yeah, I mostly work on SQL as well. And I have practiced a lot with window functions and joins, et cetera. I just wanted to ask, how much do we need to cluster when we work in platforms like Snowflake or Databricks? Because I know that, for example, in Snowflake, they deal with the clustering themselves and they don't really let you do it manually at all times. But in Databricks, I think that you have the freedom to also cluster yourself and index, for example, the columns that you need.

19:12 - sanjeev kumar
Yes. Absolutely. So that's a good point. So all these modern They are kind of trying to make a user's life easy by trying to make all these decisions, what keys to use for clustering, how to collocate the data, what indexing to use, right? All their AI engine will make a call depending on the usage pattern on the table. For example, the everyday, like even in Databricks that happens, they have, Databricks has something called predictive optimization, but Databricks is a platform that gives you flexibility. Can, if you really want to go and fine tune something yourself, you can do it. But if you want to be, don't want to be bothered about like, okay, I want, I don't want to be bothered about which key to use, then then you can have predictive optimizer that will use an engine like Snowflake. So what it does, it just takes looks at your query patterns, like how many queries are being fired on this table, what kind of, I don't know, where clause or join keys are being used. And based on that, that engine will take a call. OK, let me start clustering them with this one, because my past week's usage history shows all my queries will benefit from that. That's fine. Good for a user. Maybe if I'm a platform architect, maybe I need that. But as a developer, that's not that good, I would say. You should, do you understand like how, which, why to cluster, which keys to use for clustering and how it helps? Do you know that?

20:45 - Nikolaos Biniaris
Yes, I understand that most times you need to put in the indexes in columns like dates, but I also read that if you like put a function during your indexing, it loses the, speed that you wanted to gain like if you put like a like where extract year from order date then it loses the index speed that you're trying to achieve.

21:17 - sanjeev kumar
Yeah yeah so we will talk about those technicalities that's that's absolutely right but not now so we have the architectural discussion part that's a good point that this what you're talking about is a bit of an advanced topic right in the D part we'll take you you are free to ask me from the sites right because yeah we will definitely discuss on this part okay great anybody else whom I have missed okay then let's move on to the second part so I would like to ask everyone like see I'm just taking example of data engineering for now but consider it for DE, sorry, DA, Data Analysts and ML also, right? And DevOps and DE, I kind of, I'm clubbing together. So when I say DE and DevOps, yes, they're together. Now, if we talk about data engineering, right? So you would need a platform to work on. So there are, especially, specifically in data engineering, we are talking about distributed engines, right? Not old RDBMS systems which have fixed machines that you buy on-prem and whatnot. No, we are not talking about them, right? We're talking about scalable distributed systems. Now, mostly Spark. Spark is like one of the most used distributed engine that we have. And there are multiple platforms like Azure, AWS, Databricks, and whatnot, Snowflake. So the way of work would be, you choose the use case and then you will choose a platform that you want to start working with, right? And based on your technical expertise, you can choose to start with, I'm taking example of Azure, right? Azure has something called Azure Data Factory, right? There, what happens, it's kind of a drag and drop tool. You just drag and drop and write your logic only. So the same use case that we see here can be implemented in that fashion. If you are just starting up, use that kind of drag and drop tool. Easy to do. Like, for example, in AWS, you have Glue. In Databricks, you have something called Lakeflow Designer. I'm not sure what you have in Snowflake, but yeah, there would be something there also. So what I would say, choose a platform that you think is easier for you to start working with, right? Because all of them work under the hood with the same concept, right? Distributed engine, massive parallel processing, and whatnot. We will talk about all of those will teach us the same concepts. So choose a tool of your platform of your preference. Choose something easy to start with. So for example, in last internship, what we did, we started with ADF. So same concepts we did with ADF, which was drag and drop. They didn't have to write much code. When it failed, we understood the characteristic of Spark, because most of this engine under the hood will run on Spark, right? So all the problems and failures that we got, we could understand more internals of Spark. Then on a later phase, what we did, the same thing we implemented in pure PySpark, because that's what I want you to teach. Right that's what that's what I want you to learn ultimately by end of the for data engineering I'm just talking about right not for others uh as an example so uh so so this is how the format probably should be feel free to suggest me or tell me if there is something else is needed right so uh choose a platform do let me know like in in next next week which platform did you choose and all of these will provide you trial version So just spin up a trial account, it will be valid for a month. So, and it should not cost you. Even for Databricks snowflake, all of them have their free accounts, right? Maybe for Databricks it's valid for only 14 days or something. I'm not sure, but check that.

25:29 - Nikolaos Biniaris
Once- I think that Databricks free version is now unlimited.

25:33 - sanjeev kumar
Oh yeah, you're right. There's an unlimited version.

25:38 - Unidentified Speaker
serverless SQL, I think.

25:41 - sanjeev kumar
Yes, that's a good point. So yeah, just explore, choose a platform of your choice and implement the use cases. Do the registration and do let us know next week which platform did you choose. We'll just make a note of it. Does it make sense? Any questions? OK, fine. I think I'll take the silence as it makes sense, right? Fine. Then let's talk about use cases, right? And maybe I messed up the order. This should go in the end, right? Last half an hour, we'll try to dedicate only for architectural discussions. OK, use cases. Now, and you are free to suggest, right? So we had a mentor sync internally. And I think this is what made most sense to us. So instead of like, for example, if you go and check the, like in SQL you have first week, we have like select clause, where clause, window functions. If you prefer that, go ahead and do that. No problem at all, right? Whichever you feel comfortable with. But what I was thinking, why not start with a use case? Case, right? I'll refine it a bit more. But yeah, why not start with a use case? Like, for example, in data engineering case, I would like you to work on this particular use case. Like, for example, there's a retail company that operates both online and offline, right? I'm trying, with these use cases, we're trying to touch what we see in the field, the customers, right? For example, they receive data from multiple sources. It could be an API-based source. It could be, I don't know, Kafka systems, right? If you want to really go deep and complex, let's make it a Kafka source. If you want to start easy, let's make it a simple CSV file that gets dropped in object store, like, I don't know, ADLS, GCS and whatnot, right? And then we need to transform that data, we need to clean them, we need to model them and make them available for serving, right? Serving could be our dashboards or I don't know, an OLTP systems, or APIs, or apps, and whatnot. In the process of doing so, we will go through all these stages, right? Very simple. How do you extract? This itself will bring up a lot of topics to discuss. OK, when you extract, what are the different kind of sources you have? When you land it, extract and land it, what file format will you use? Use? What is the industry standard? Then when you do this, we will start with, I don't know, 10 MB of files, but then we will scale it to 10 GB of files. Then we discuss what problems would come, why Spark solves that, why Spark is a preferred engine, right? So you understand that at every stage, we have n number of of topics that we can cover. Similarly, if we keep going, and there's no pressure that every week we have to finish. Do it on your own pace. Weekly check-in that we do in the midweek, discuss among yourself what you did, what problems you have. Maybe somebody who is more experienced can answer you then and there. And then, if not, make a list of it. Drop that Q&A in the chat, in the Slack chat that you that you are in, right? Drop the question. These are the questions. This is what I worked on, and I need answers for this. If somebody can answer that, if I get a chance to take a look, I can answer. Otherwise, we can discuss that conceptually. You can also ask AI. It will give you some answer. But bring those up here. What did you learn? And then I can add some on top of it based on my experience, right? So maybe that makes sense. And then slowly, we will keep on moving into deeper level, scale with PySpark, orchestration, we will talk about orchestration, then maybe a little bit of AI if you want to include, but it's optional, right? So if you don't want to get into this, you can just leave it. And then CICD, CICD part, I would everyone to know a basics of this right even if you are DI because ML people would need it DE it is needed DevOps definitely but data analysts also should know a little bit about it right like I mentioned approach one could be cloud native like very simple drag and drop tool I will update this one with the with Azure and whatnot right and then we will we will choose a tougher stack which which really hard code data engineers would use. Similarly, we have something which is prepared by vinod. So vinod will be taking care of the data analyst part when we split up later on, like maybe in three to four weeks. So here also, he has given you some use cases. Take a look at how would you like to go about it. Similarly, for ML also, we will update it. I might have received it from VIVEK. I did not get time to update this one. But this is what we are thinking the format should be. What do you guys think?

31:20 - Filip Cedermark
I think it looks good. For someone who, like, I'm pretty excited about the CICD part, especially, because that's not something I worked in like data engineering setting or really any setting. So that's I'm looking forward to. Yeah, absolutely.

31:39 - sanjeev kumar
Yeah, so I would say city part of capital tech very small at the moment, if you would like to start with that, let's, I will elaborate and bring in a use case just for this right. With bit more of complexity that we see in the field, right? Like, for example, scalability, if you have a hundreds of project will should be and CSED is not about just deployments right and continuous integration it could also span to how do you structure your your project like if it's like I don't know hundreds of projects you are doing should be a mono repo if it is a mono repo how do you manage that like if you're using terraform how would the state be managed what if I delete a pipeline will my state be deleted or not right will it affect my other pipelines so all those things complexity I will add which I see in the field you are free to pick that up part first right okay great any other inputs any other points and vinod and VIVEK please feel free to jump in yeah this is an open discussion so if you feel and if you have some inputs what do you think please feel free to add here. OK, great. Now, so the task, we will start with the task. So I am just trying to figure out, how do I give access to you on this repo? Because the action part, you need to fill. So this week's task would be, for all the data engineering folks right would be to take a look at this use case right I will refine it a little bit more before I send it out to you and then start working on stage one and at least just minimum first choose a platform start implementing stage one if you know everything on stage one feel free to go further in in these stages right and next week we will talk about I expect you to face a lot of failures job failures right and then we will discuss about them so we have tasks for next week defined is that fine great now let's move on to and every time so this time we didn't have last week we did not have any homework to do actually But from next time, we'll have a lot to discuss. But we have to find time. I will also note down all these topics that I think it is very important. We are starting with the common part at the moment. You can come, take a look. OK, these are the topics. Go and do your own search. Learn about them. But let's use this time, half an hour, to do some discussions about basic things. Could you explain me like those who are experienced? Let's talk about data lifecycle. What you have seen in your work? What do you understand about data lifecycle in data engineering part, right? And not only data engineering part. So DEs, data engineers will have a different exposure to data lifecycle. DAs will have different exposure and ML people will have different exposure. I would like to hear from everyone what do they understand by data lifecycle. And there are some hints here. Please feel free to raise your hand.

35:26 - Elliot Eriksson
I mean, I don't have that much experience with the data lifecycle, but I've done some minor projects in data management where I've had to extract data do some cleaning of it. Particularly like for, like we did like a cancer identification for the application where we had to remove some data which were like null and double duplicates and whatnot.

35:51 - sanjeev kumar
Yeah, exactly. So if you see a data lifecycle, right, we usually do ingestions. That's the very first step, right? When you do ingestion, you get to connect to, you might have to get to connect to various these kind of sources. So it could be a database, it could be API, I don't know, you are pulling some weather data from somewhere or some web server, right? There's also one of the common use cases. And with all these types, you have different kind of engineering challenges. Like for example, with databases, databases have how many JDBC connections you can make, right? That kind of issues could come in, right? In production cases, when you work with the customer. There will be like how do you get around that? Then flat files. Flat files is where distributed systems really shine, right? Like for example, just add your CSV files or, I don't know, semi-structured JSON or XML files in a storage blob, or maybe S3 bucket, and then you ingest them. There could also be streaming systems, like for example, let's take an example of Klarna. So POS systems, right? You blip your card and then that system has to send the data as soon as possible and your AI ML algorithm has to run to see I don't know whether I am credit worthy or not or maybe is that this is a fraud or not right so so there could be streams that stream ingestions that that would be needed and I work with a number of customers where this is like really high priority right because from systems like banks this is like business right anti-money laundering and whatnot everything has to happen like in in real time speed yeah right so for ingestion there could be multiple types of data sources and multiple and different kind of speed for ingesting that data and all these types will have their own challenges and this is what data engineering is about what you need to go and resolve them even for data analysts right so you are getting I don't know, dashboards, or you want low latency dashboards. So you might be dependent on your data engineering team to actually provide you low latency data. Or if you want, if you're self-independent, maybe you can use something called DBT, right? You can do your, analysts can build their own ingestion pipelines, right? At the moment, if I understand correctly, DBT is batch only. Maybe you can have near real-time data every half an hour, every 15 minutes, or that kind of thing. But real, real streaming would happen only in, probably only data engineers will deal with that, right? Because they are like critical systems. And then we'll talk about layering later on. So Medellin architecture is also one of the very important things that everyone should know about. We'll talk about that. Once we have gone through this, then cleaning, right? We need to clean the data. The biggest problem in the industry is even AI cannot function if there that is not fixed is the data quality, right? And DAs, I think they suffer a lot because of data quality. I have been a data engineer for a long time and I have worked with data scientists, analysts as my users. And the major concern from them is the quality of the data, right? I don't know, like for example, bill checks, why suddenly I'm getting more nulls in this particular column, right? Why my cost is none? So there should be checks to see when you ingest this data, you are cleaning them properly. Maybe these nulls should have been rejected, or maybe the cost, how can a cost be minus 9999, right? So these kind of basic checks are done when the data has already been ingested. So first is land the data in distributed systems I'm talking about. So the first part, there is one important part I missed. So the distributed system, okay, maybe I should take that later. Yeah, let's take that later. Then we clean the data set, right? It's very important and there could be, and do you know technologies like big expectations? So there are vendors who provide you this. You just plug and play, and then it will clean the data. You set the rules, thresholds. There are tools that do anomaly detection. So for example, for today, an unreasonably high number of blips are coming in your stream data is coming in your data set. It can highlight those anomalies. So every platform has built in their own data quality check systems. But as a data engineer, I have built my own data quality frameworks where I will write my rules based on what data analysts or data scientists want. For them, we used to get contracts from them. For this particular table, we will have, if this particular threshold reaches a number of nulls, then this is a problem for me. So we used to write those checks, we used to write I don't know, date should be in this format. If not, then their dashboards might break, right? So a lot of checks they will provide. Null checks, date format checks, data type checks, right? And yeah, referential integrity check, whether, for example, if you have star schema, this particular record, if it is arriving, there should be an entry for it in a dimension table, right? So these kind of checks we do and make sure that the data is clean, properly aligned to what downstream users will expect. Then comes transformation. This is where we actually apply the business logic. So I have also seen that sometimes DAs take over this part. Data analysts will do it. And also ML engineers also. So they might, I don't know if they are creating features or something, they might take over this part and do it. Data engineers usually overlap till here, right? And then after that, these two parts could be managed by both, all three profiles actually. Here we apply the business logics, joins, KPI aggregation. This is where the most of the big data problems will come in because Spark, so a lot of people who have come from RDV-ness background. It's a great system, data warehouse system, but it has a unique way of doing things, right? And I have seen like people coming here and doing the same. In distribution, they will come and apply the same understanding or same processes here in distributed system. It would not work, right? We will talk about them when we go into the distributed systems, like how it is different from our, warehouse systems. So we create, we do data modeling here, KPI calculations and usually create a gold layer here. So ingestion, bronze layer, cleaning of the data and a mild modification becomes a silver layer. This is the medallion architecture I'm talking about if you have not heard about it. Every organization will call it a different layer. They can call it raw layer, curated layer or business layer or something like that. But yeah, in general, these are like medallion architectures. But just the name is different, right? And gold layer are supposed to be the one which will finally serve. By serving, I mean like dashboards. A user has to go and take a look at it, right? Or maybe, I don't know, apps. They need to be served. Whenever I go in an app, Amazon app, and go and click on this particular My Profile, it has to go and do some analysis. And give me some recommendation or something. So it goes and takes a look at your goal layer, right? Yeah, and goal layers are supposed to be aggregated, smaller tables, right? It should not be like, I don't know, it can be, I'm not saying like it's a rule, but usually goal layers are supposed to be a smaller aggregated data sets. Okay, then comes the serving layer, right? A serving layer could be like, for example, yeah, there could be dashboards that we talk about. APIs, like, for example, you can just create APIs on top of your data. And then any apps would like to access it. They will fire queries against these APIs. Like, for example, apps. So there are these postgres systems, right? Or let's just talk about this Klarna use case, right? So where they have very low latency lookup case where within 15 milliseconds I tap my card and that system needs to go and check who am I and get all my profile and make a decision on that right. When we go and talk about file formats, distributed systems, object stores, we will also talk about latency. So every stage there is a latency involved right. Latency, input output latency, network latency. So these are like bit more advanced concepts but yeah so for those servings those systems would want to access their gold or or gold layer with a very minimal latency right and that's when systems like Postgres come into the picture right these are very low latency databases right which can when which will probably expose APIs or they you can also fire on that yeah and whenever you do a blip Klarna system is going to call that API send your information it's going to do and these systems are like highly pre-computed pre-calculated they don't want to because every transformation will take time to execute right and they cannot afford to do that because they are targeted at 50 milliseconds like very fast systems so it will go and hit those databases APIs and and return the data for you. And this brings a number of challenges. We will talk about them, what I see in the field. Even if we talk about these dashboards, there are dashboards where you want, whenever a user clicks, you want it to refresh within a second or two seconds. If you have a lot of widgets that you have created, I'm not an expert on dashboarding, but yeah, I have and I've created some dashboards, right, natively, which I get in my platform. So, okay, the refresh latency should be lower, right? Then, like if you talk about Power BI, how do you make it lower? So there is like direct query, there is import mode, there is composite mode. There are a number of optimization that you might need to do, right? So yes, so this, if you go, level is always in the details. When we deep dive, you will find a number of challenges that we need to face on a day-to-day basis. So this is about the data lifecycle. I hope I have covered everything. Any feedback, any experience that you have, any interesting use case that you have worked on, some challenges that you If you have something, please feel free to share.

47:39 - Filip Cedermark
Yes, I can say something here as well. And this isn't necessarily true for me. But when I did my internship at Postnode last year, one big aspect when doing these kind of things, and the way we did at Postnode at least, was different business units came and they request some amount of data structured in a certain way so they could use it for their own use case. And once you had delivered that data, it was also up to you to kind of maintain that data product and make sure that once it is delivered and they're using it, it needs to actively be supported. And if anything fails, they also come back to you and you have to make sure that everything works in that way.

48:26 - sanjeev kumar
And that's also what I like, like I said, to do very much of that because I was only an intern so I don't think they trusted me enough but yeah but okay so that is also an experience right so working experience exactly this is what would happen and yeah I can talk a lot about that but I don't want to go there like how exactly the team should be structured so so there is a very big thing as an architect you need to think about like how do you structure your teams should a data engineer or a guy who really make the pipeline should be in a data analyst team or should there be a central team. So these are also like architecturally very big discussions that we have usually with the customers. Let's not go there. But yeah, good point there. Okay. Yes, and the use case that we have will cover all these parts. It is very important in my mind, because like I mentioned, every layer will have n number of challenges that as a data engineer or I don't know DA, you need to face or resolve. Okay, then So if we are able to cover, we just have 15 minutes, I will start talking about this. But I also want you to go back and read these in a bit more detail. Go and check the history of distributed systems, why it came into the picture. It's a really very interesting story. And how did we evolve? What are distributed engines? File formats. I would also like you to spend some time doing your own research. So please make sure that you do these parts in the coming weeks apart from doing the use cases. That's hands-on but we need to also understand the theory of it. Then could somebody talk about distributed systems. What are distributed systems? Like how these are different? What was the tech earlier? What kind of challenges it brings? Do you have any idea, any inputs on this?

50:56 - Asindu Gayangana
Distributed systems parallelize the process, Sanjay. It means it When we extract code to the transformation, it parallelizes into each processes. Then then it transform within those processes so. It is the main thing so we can configure how much data should process. Inside each process so. Those kind of things we can do in distributed systems.

51:35 - sanjeev kumar
Absolutely, yes. Exactly the point that you mentioned, Asindu. So single machines do work in single-threaded fashion. So for example, just imagine you have 10 rows to process. And what you want to do, take a row of record, like for example, my name, my address, and whatnot. And my date of birth. So you have to go and write a small logic that goes and checks whether the date of birth is properly formatted or not. That's just a simple example. What a single-threaded system will do, it will take those 10 rows because it has one single compute that it can use. It will go and go over those rows one by one. So it will do 10 iterations. To check that what is happening with this date, date of birth, whether it is correct or not, right? Now, just scale it, there's 10 records to 10 billion records, right? And very easily, almost every company has more than that, right? That much terabytes, petabytes of data. It's impossible to get that done. It will take them days to process that data, right? Now, just imagine, instead of that one single threaded machine, what distributed system do, it takes 10 of those, right? So just add those distributed machines beside each other, right? So 10 machines. And then, now since, just think, since this is a date format check, right? I don't, and my first record processing is not dependent on second record. These are like, can be processed independently. Why I have to wait for my first record, row check to happen, then go to the second one, right? So what these distributed engines do, so just imagine like there are 10 machines, right? And I have 10 rows to process. It's intelligent enough to identify, okay, these are independent processes. There is something called wide transformation and narrow transformation. We'll talk about that later. Yeah, so it identifies, okay, seems like these can be processed in parallel is no dependency between the rows. I am not trying to join between this and this and so that there is a dependency for this to be processed. No. So what it's going to do, it's going to send all these rows to one row to each machine and process all of them together. And now you scale it to 10 billion. Here the speed will be 10 times faster than a single threaded machine. So this is all about distributed systems now. With the distributed systems to do this, right? It's called partitioning. How do you partition the data? That comes with a number of other challenges, right? It's not that easy to orchestrate. And distributed systems are all about that, right? So, for example, a single machine has limits on CPU, RAM, disk, data doesn't fit in, right? And also distributed systems, there's a very, I need to, okay, I will tell this because it is transcribed. But we will also cover when we go a bit deep dive on data engines, right? Distributed engines split off compute and storage. This is also a very, very, very good concept to know, to understand how does modern technologies work, right? Distributed systems could be, the older distributed systems had a problem which was recently solved by Spark. So Spark is widespread because of a reason, right? We will talk about that in detail. Okay, so distributed systems split work across many nodes, like I talked about, computers that work in parallel, right? And key concepts are partitioning, like how do you split the data? So there is always an orchestrator in distributed systems. So for example, in terms of Spark, there will be a driver, and then there will be workers under it, right? The driver, when we talk about Spark in detail, we'll talk about the Spark's architecture. When the driver comes into the picture, it takes care of understanding your workers, how many workers you have, what kind of workload I can distribute, whether this task is serializable, distributable or not. So these kinds of decisions your driver takes, and then uses your workers to distribute the work, right? Partitioning, then fault tolerance. I'll talk about this one. So now you say like I am doing my single threaded machine processing. I just pay for one machine. Now you're telling me to add 10 machines. What about the cost, right? So these are like real world problems. Customers will question you. Why shall I do that? Just to speed 10 time gains, what if I don't want to do it, right? So that's where, distributed systems really shine. So these are very cheap machines, and they can fail anytime. So cheaper machines. So these data warehouses that you set up on-prem, these are very high quality, highly fault-tolerant machines. And these are really costly machines. They were built for durability. Now, with the advent of tech, My laptop could be used as one of the worker nodes. But it can fail any time, right? And these are like cheap laptops. So if you see Hadoop, if you go and talk about Hadoop, this is what they did. So they set up data centers with these very cheap machines. So you talked about these, I don't know, Google data center or whatnot, right? Very cheap machines. But the problem with them is they can fail any time. And that's why they're trying to keep the cost down, like 10 machines. Will not pay 10 times you might pay maybe it might even be cheaper than your single thread because you are using a very high quality machine right but this low quality comes the date of node failure problem and that's where spark and other distribution system like Hadoop have built-in fault tolerance so now there's a concept of data replication if you go and check right so it's what happens like whenever so for example I said took an example of 10 rows 10 workers right what it's going to do it knows like these 10 workers one of them could fail anytime so what it will do it will distribute it will write one row send one row to each machine but make a copy of that one row that went to one machine say machine number one into two other machines so now Row 1 actually copied in machine 1, say 2, and 3 also for fault tolerance. If machine 1 down, it's going to recreate it from one of these backup machines, right? And as a data engineer, you need to understand this very, very well. So for example, if you have, like, Nikolaos, you have worked with Databricks, right? You mentioned. So you choose these classic clusters, right? The classic job clusters or maybe all-purpose clusters that you choose, right? You need to understand what kind of machines you are using. There are spot instances, right? Spot instances can be cheapest machines possible, but they can fail anytime, right? Then how does Spark work, but your job will never fail? Because behind the scene, your Spark driver is working to make sure, okay, If this machine has failed, OK, copy for this particular data was available in machine X. Let me go and copy it back and spin up another spot instance, right? So all these things are happening in the background. And it's very important to understand. It's completely abstracted away from us, but it's very important to understand how these systems work. OK. Then coordination who does what exactly that I talked about so driver takes all these decisions like which is my worker node done with task is it already done let me send maybe there is a 11th row let me on which worker node I should send that that particular task now okay It seems like my machine two is finished. Let me send that to machine number two. So these kind of coordination tasks is required. Like Hadoop, Kafka Streaming, Cassandra, Spark, all of these are distributed systems. So there is more complexity, but linear scalability. Now, because of these capabilities, just imagine you keep on adding. Now, instead of 11, record Now you have 11,000 records, right? You can keep on processing on 10 machines. It will keep on working on this one. It will just be a bit slower, because they're automated machines. But now, since these machines are cheaper, we are using spot machines, you just add 10 more machines. No problem at all, without much cost addition. You will know. We will talk about cost also, because when we work with customer, they will also question us on cost, right? So without affecting much of the cost, you can actually scale it, right? Scalability is one of the biggest advantages of distributed systems. In the single-threaded machines or warehouses, where you buy a machine and keep them on-prem, instead of AWS or Google managing the data centers, a company will buy its own data center and set it up. Now, tomorrow, my data has exploded, right? Now, there is AI. Every data is being dumped. I need to run analysis on 10 years of data instead of just one year. What will you do? You need to buy again maybe 10-20 machines and store it yourself, manage it yourself, upgrade them yourself. It's like a nightmare to actually maintain them. Companies started spending more resources on maintaining those systems as they grew than actually getting the value out of it. That's why the cloud tech came into the picture. Google said, AWS said, I will have these machines. You use them when you want and then just shut it down. We will not charge you for that. So that's how the cloud concept came into the picture. So scalability is one of the biggest problems in the older world. And this is what distributed systems solve with with cost, right, like without exploding your cost. Okay, so I think we are almost on time. Any questions you have? Yeah, so what we will do, so task for next week, right? Please go through these topics, all of them, right? I would love if you could a small architectural design to to make your your colleagues understand like how exactly spark works like what what do I mean by coordination right if you if you could do a architecture diagram yourself right just go and read and you will find a lot of references right but design them yourself and try to explain us anyone like if you if you get time right explain us like what exactly it is it is doing right then it will be great right and let's see and and you can also commit your work in in action part then and yeah read about these things and pick up the use case if you can so you have to sign up spin up a trial account of platform of your choice do let me know next time which one you are using I'll make a note of and start working on this. Now, for example, I will refine this one in the mid of the week, maybe by tomorrow. Sorry, maybe by Monday, I will send a more refined version. For the data sets, do you guys all have access to maybe at least ChargeGPT? If you have, just give this use case to ChargeGPT and give me, I don't know, some sample records for this particular use case, these kind of things. Or you can just go to HackerRank and get some sample data, right? Or just mock up your own. So start with some mockup, very small data set here. Later on, we will scale it up to, I don't know, thousands of records and then see the differences. OK, so three tasks. One, read about this part. If possible, do an architecture Second, sign up platform of your choice, and then start with your use case. So this is for data engineering. For DevOps, I will update it. And then this is for SQL. And I think I will also update the ML part here. So you can also take that up. But in the beginning, I would say for ML guys also, until we have this common session slide, Just pick one data engineering problem. I think you should start with this without going into ML too much in the first month. Great. Then let's close this session. Again, just to repeat, please join your weekly sync, the midweek sync, and discuss among yourself get the ideas just just discuss right what you did what you worked on what challenges you faced how did you resolve that right so do that and then feel free to drop your queries in the slack channel.

1:06:01 - Suhash
Sanju the task that we need to do it is updated in the sheet right like for data engineering.

1:06:07 - sanjeev kumar
Which sheet you're talking? Like in this thing itself like for this work that we need to do in this week which you mentioned now it is it is written somewhere right or yeah so I I will I will figure out a way to share this whole repo with you so you will have like I explained this is available in live live is like live document that we will use there's a living document for the whole internship everything so session one what we did everything is marked here session two uh I will check the agenda and update it here I'm sorry I will check the transcription update what we talk about And these are discussions we had. And this is the use case. So yeah, you will have access to all of these.

1:06:48 - Suhash
No, what I'm asking is the task that you assigned us for this week for each role, the task will be in some written format, right? Because it's easier to forget.

1:06:59 - sanjeev kumar
Yes, I will do one thing. So in the transcription, I'll make a summary of it and add it here. So you will have that. Yeah.

1:07:12 - sanjeev kumar
OK, then I wish you a great weekend.

1:07:17 - Filip Cedermark
Thank you. You too.

1:07:19 - Unidentified Speaker
Yes.

1:07:20 - VIVEK PRASAD
Thank you, sanjeev. Thank you.